Episode 6, Elizabeth.
We couldn’t fly directly to Ankhazastan; we had to fly
to Vladivostok and catch a smaller plane from there.
There were only four other people on the flight – two businessmen and two military types.
It was a cold and damp afternoon when we landed at Ankhaz, the capital.
It was a big old airport, but completely deserted.
We wandered nervously up to the one immigration counter that was open.
We had been told by the embassy in London that we
didn’t require a visa – our letter from Miki was enough.
The woman at the counter stared at the letter, surprise showing momentarily
in her eyes, then waved us through without even stamping our passports.
I noticed, also, that there was not even a computer on her desk.
“It really is a bit of a shambles, isn’t it?” commented George.
I could hardly disagree.
We exited the airport through the huge doors and looked for a taxi.
There weren’t any, not even one.
We stared at each other.
What had we gotten ourselves into?
There were two armed soldiers near the entrance and George approached them.
A moment later he came back and reported: “They’ll call
a taxi for us, but it’ll take an hour to get here!”
To kill time, we exchanged some money.
We each exchanged a hundred-pound note and received three
bundles of notes in return, each the size of a brick.
The smallest note was 10,000 Ankhaz Rubles.
“They must have an issue with runaway inflation,” George said.
We bought two coffees – 200,000 rubles each – and waited outside for our taxi.
It took one and a half hours to show up.
During that time, we counted only six people entering or leaving the airport.
“Russkia?” asked the taxi driver, helping us with our bags.
“No, British,” I said.
“Do you speak English?”
“Yes,” he replied.
“Ver’ good English.
Just like Queen of England.” And he laughed at his own joke.
“ Okay,” I said, “Take us to the biggest hotel in town.
The biggest.
How much for the trip?”
The driver replied by holding up his thumb and forefinger, leaving a gap of about two centimetres.
“What?
No, how much MONEY for the taxi?”
The driver motioned for me to pass him my money; then
he took about two centimetres of notes from the stack.
“Ankhazastan money no good,” he grinned.
As we drove away from the airport, we passed a huge banner with Miki’s face on it.
He was gazing handsomely into the distance and there was some text underneath.
“What does it say?” I asked the driver.
“Miki love Ankhazastan.
And Ankhazastan love Miki,” he replied without any emotion.
“That man, Miki, is an old friend of ours,” I told him.
Upon hearing that, the driver’s face turned sour, and
he didn’t speak to us for the rest of the journey.